Typing create-compare.sh while in this directory will open SAC to
create SAC files that are then compared to the output from three
stand-alone programs: TAPER, ENVELOPE and CONVOLVE created in
sub-directories of ${SACHOME}/doc/examples/ (henceforth ~/examples).

The output from the stand-alone programs have been copied from runs in
~/examples/taper/, ~/examples/envelope/, and ~/examples/convolve/.
These runs can be done by entering `make` while in ~/examples/.  The
comparisons are done by creating a plot with three time signals: the
input, the output using SAC (created in the script) and the output
using the stand-alone program. (For the convolve example, the
input-pulse file is also included in the plot.) The plots are saved as
PDF files.

The following paragraphs explain why these specific commands were
chosen:

TAPER: One example of when this command is used in seismology is when
one wants to process that series by taking a Fourier transform â€” such
is done when filtering or creating an envelope for the waveform, which
are two commands included in ~/examples/.  A second example, and the
one used here, is when one wants to study further a segment of a time
series, such as an arrival.  Tapering is necessary as there is
generally "noise" before and/or after the selected time segment, and
tapering the record is better than having an abrupt transition at the
beginning and end.  Often one removes the mean and trend (both are
done in SAC by rtrend) prior to calling taper, although for the
analysis of an isolated time segment it is bet done prior to cutting
the longer record.  In this example, the detrending and cutting are
done in SAC in preparing the waveform before applying the cut, but
both operations could be done using programs from ~/examples/rtrend
and ~/examples/cut.  In this case, the choice of begin and end times
for the cut is facilitated by PPK, so it is more easily done in SAC.

ENVELOPE: The program compute the envelope of a time series using the
Hilbert transform.  Applying a Hilbert transform to a time series can
be unstable if the time series has not been prepared in advance,
including the removal of the mean and trend as well as tapering if
there is signal/noise near the end points.  In this example, rtrend and
taper are done in SAC, but they could be done in programs from
~/examples/rtrend and ~/examples/taper.

CONVOLVE: Unlike the other two programs discussed above, CONVOLVE
involves two files: a "pulse" and a "waveform".  In this example, the
waveform is a synthetic vertical component with spike of time,
polarity, and amplitude representing phase arrival times.  The "pulse"
is what is called a Brune pulse, which is often used to model a seismic
source.


